# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file. This project uses [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/).

## 2.12.0 (2023-05-14)
  * Housekeeping.

## 2.11.1 (2023-04-13)
## 2.11.0 (2023-04-13)
  * Feature: allow for user-selectable cloud geographic regions for the myQ API.

## 2.10.2 (2023-04-11)
## 2.10.1 (2023-04-11)
  * Fix: webUI bugfixes.
  * Housekeeping.

## 2.10.0 (2023-04-10)
  * Improvement: better performance across the board.
  * Housekeeping.

## 2.9.0 (2023-01-03)
  * Feature: new feature option to allow users to disable battery notifications for myQ devices with a battery-enabled door position sensor. You can disable low battery notifications by using `Disable.BatteryInfo`.
  * Feature: new feature option to allow for setting garage door openers to read-only. You can configure garage door openers as read-only using `Enable.ReadOnly`.

## 2.8.3 (2022-12-27)
  * More housekeeping.

## 2.8.2 (2022-12-27)
  * Dependency updates and housekeeping.

## 2.8.1 (2022-12-05)
  * Web UI to peruse through the list of detected myQ devices.
  * Dependency updates and housekeeping.

## 2.8.0 (2022-12-05)
  * Web UI to peruse through the list of detected myQ devices.
  * Dependency updates and housekeeping.

## 2.7.4 (2022-01-17)
  * Dependency updates.

## 2.7.3 (2022-01-09)
  * Housekeeping.

## 2.7.2 (2022-01-01)
  * Lock `mqtt` upstream package version due to a bug introduced in a newer version until it gets sorted out.
  * Dependency updates.

## 2.7.1 (2021-09-18)
  * A housekeeping release to remove the core myQ API library out of this plugin and into it's own package to make it available to other developers who want to support myQ capabilities in their projects.

## 2.7.0 (2021-09-17)
  * Refine how myQ API access tokens refresh credentials in the v6 API.
  * Refine how we handle connection resets by retrying a reset connection before abandoning it and logging into the API anew.

## 2.6.5 (2021-08-17)
  * Fix for log warnings generated by models of myQ openers not currently known to the plugin.

## 2.6.4 (2021-08-16)
  * Improve response checking from the myQ API on logins.
  * Housekeeping.

## 2.6.3 (2021-07-19)
  * Dependency updates.

## 2.6.2 (2021-01-31)
  * Fix: lamps should now work under the new myQ API.

## 2.6.1 (2021-01-23)
  * Re-release for housekeeping reasons.
  * Feature: guest accounts are now formally supported. Your myQ credentials will now show all devices your login has access to.
  * Change: **feature option semantics have changed** to be consistent across the other plugins I develop and maintain. What used to be: `Hide.serialnumber` and `Show.serialnumber` are now `Disable.serialnumber` and `Enable.serialnumber`.

  * Updates from v2.5.0:
    * Feature: support for myQ API v6 allowing `homebridge-myq` to use the latest features and evolving capabilities of the myQ API. This should help deal with the deprecation of the legacy login methods that Liftmaster / Chamberlain are clearly in the process of retiring. A huge thank you to @jarz who partnered with me on this one...he did most of the real heavy lifting in getting a working OAuth+PKCE-based login proof-of-concept working. Thank you for your contribution to the community and your partnership. Some things of note with the new API:

      * Looks like we have better potential access to cameras and locks...more exploration is needed...nothing to report for now.
      * **myQ lamp devices may or may not work**. I didn't have a lamp device to test with, and had to take an educated guess at how to execute lamp-related commands in the new API. **I would welcome reports on this for lamp users to see whether things work or not.**
    * Removed legacy options that aren't relevant with the myQ v6 API.
    * Housekeeping and dependency updates.

## 2.4.2 (2021-01-13)
  * Deal with the latest minor updates in the myQ API as an interim step while we deal with the larger myQ API version update. More work ahead, but this should get most people back up and running - for now.
  * Dependency updates.

## 2.4.1 (2021-01-01)
  * Housekeeping and dependency updates.

## 2.4.0 (2020-12-21)
  * Feature: future-proofing against potential API issues allowing users to override the user agent, when needed.

## 2.3.7 (2020-12-18)
  * myQ API changes broke things...again...so we fix them...again! The initial login request changed ever so slightly.

## 2.3.6 (2020-12-16)
  * myQ API changes broke things...so we fix them! `homebridge-myq` will now generate a random user agent string at startup to avoid potential API blacklisting by myQ servers.

## 2.3.5 (2020-11-22)
  * Housekeeping.

## 2.3.4 (2020-11-22)
  * Dependency updates.

## 2.3.3 (2020-11-01)
  * Workaround for occasional HomeKit quirks in garage door notifications. This should result in more robust (and less quirky) notification behavior when you open and close garage doors.
  * Minor housekeeping and dependency updates.

## 2.3.2 (2020-10-11)
  * Small optimization around Homebridge startup.
  * Dependency updates.

## 2.3.1 (2020-09-27)
  * Logging refinements and housekeeping.

## 2.3.0 (2020-09-19)
  * Support for myQ-enabled lights, lamps, and switches.

## 2.2.2 (2020-09-16)
  * Support self-signed TLS certificates for MQTT brokers.

## 2.2.1 (2020-09-14)
  * Feature: MQTT support. Read the [MQTT documentation](https://github.com/hjdhjd/homebridge-myq/blob/master/docs/MQTT.md) for more information.
  * Improved responsiveness when we know certain events are happening.
  * Housekeeping and general improvements.

## 2.1.12 (2020-09-08)
  * **IMPORTANT: NAME CHANGE.** Starting with this release, this plugin is now renamed to `homebridge-myq`. My thanks to the previous owner of the NPM name for `homebridge-myq` for graciously transitioning it to me. What does this mean for you?
    * You should uninstall this package and reinstall it under it's new name, `homebridge-myq`. That should do the trick. Your configuration won't be impacted. Apologies for any extra gymnastics this might cause some people, but it will help future users and make this plugin more discoverable.
    * `homebridge-myq2` will soon be deprecated. You'll receive a warning message that the package has been deprecated and to install `homebridge-myq` instead.
    * Again my apologies for any extra work this causes people, but I hope it will be a mostly painless transition.
    * For those using the Homebridge webUI, it's as simple as uninstalling `homebridge-myq2` and then installing `homebridge-myq`.
    * Quick steps for those using the command line:
      ```sh
      npm -g uninstall homebridge-myq2
      npm -g install homebridge-myq
      ```
      Restart homebridge and you're all set.

  * Minor housekeeping around the name change and to prepare for the future.

## 2.1.11 (2020-08-18)
  * Enhancement: webUI updates to better support HOOBS and similar solutions.

## 2.1.10 (2020-08-14)
  * Fix: regression introduced in 2.1.9 for myQ API connectivity.

## 2.1.9 (2020-08-12)
  * Enhancement: summarize some of the more common myQ API errors so they're less intimidating in the logs.
  * Simplify the plugin webUI configuration page.
  * Housekeeping and cleanup of the codebase.
  * Update support libraries used.

## 2.1.8 (2020-07-25)
  * Additional web UI refinements.

## 2.1.6, v2.1.7 (2020-07-25)
  * Fix: remove spurious and noisy log entry when polling the myQ API.

## 2.1.5 (2020-07-25)
  * **Wanted: more myQ device types. If you have a myQ light or other non-door myQ accessory, I'd love to [hear from you](https://github.com/hjdhjd/homebridge-myq#myq-contribute) and see if we can add support for it in `homebridge-myq`.**
  * Enhancement: alert on obstructions for a longer window of time (30 seconds), to give users a better chance of noticing them. See [here](https://github.com/hjdhjd/homebridge-myq#obstruction-status) if you'd like to read more about it.
  * Enhancement: refine stopped state to better inform users when the state occurs.<BR>*Note: the default iOS Home app doesn't seem to correctly show a garage door in a stopped state, however other HomeKit apps such as Eve Home will correctly show this state when it occurs.*
  * Enhancement: increase our update resolution when we detect any state change, not just when we initiate one.
  * Enhancement: tweaked default myQ API refresh intervals to provide more frequent state updates, within reason.
  * Change: [some options have been renamed](https://github.com/hjdhjd/homebridge-myq#advanced-config), and one new option has been added - the ability to override the builtin myQ application identifier. **Use with extreme caution and only if you know what you are doing.**
  * Update debug logging approach across the codebase.
  * Miscellaneous housekeeping edits and code maintenance.
  * Updated documentation and logo.

## 2.1.4 (2020-07-20)
  * Fix: address a race condition in updating device status.
  * Logging is more standardized and refined across the plugin.
  * Deprecated and removed `openDuration` and `closeDuration`. The values have been unused internally for some time, and they don't materially impact polling resolution.
  * Prepare the plumbing for additional myQ devices.

## 2.1.3 (2020-07-17)

  * Fix: refresh security tokens more often to address potential myQ API issues.
  * Get a status update from myQ immediately on startup.
  * Remove reachability support since it's now deprecated in HomeKit and homebridge.
  * Refine logging to clarify messages and streamline in places.
  * Minor updates to the code base.

## 2.1.2 (2020-07-12)

  * Fix: repair npm install script.

## 2.1.1 (2020-07-12)

  * Enhancement: deduce the type of device and brand based on serial number.
  * Enhancement: inform users when we choose not to add a device to HomeKit because we don't support it yet.
  * Fix: don't attempt to open or close the door if we're already in that state.
  * Fix: acquire a new myQ API security token regularly (thanks @dxdc for helping track this one down).
  * Fix: address a potential race condition when we check for battery information availability (on supported models).

## 2.1.0 (2020-07-12)

  * Feature: include battery status information for devices that support it.
  * Code cleanup.

## 2.0.13 (2020-07-11)
## 2.0.12 (2020-07-11)

  * Fix: look at the `device_family` attribute to determine whether it's a garage opener or not, rather than the `device_type` attribute.

## 2.0.11

  * New feature: feature options. This replaces the previous gateways and openers settings and should be a bit more intuitive to use.

## 2.0.10

  * Improved state handling for opening and closing conditions, including dealing with edge cases.
  * Preserve door state information across homebridge instances, so we remember where we left off.
  * myQ API cleanup.

## 2.0.1 - 2.0.9 (2020-07-04)

  * API fixes to ensure compatibility.
  * Re-include UI-based configuration.
  * Re-include README and CHANGELOG.
  * Broaden our filtering for garage door openers (who knew there were so many types?!) :smile:

  Thanks to [shamoon](https://github.com/shamoon) and others for debugging and contributing to the API fixes and troubleshooting.


## 2.0.0 (2020-07-03)

  ### Breaking Changes

		* Plugin requires homebridge >= 1.0.0.
		* This plugin has been refactored to typescript.
		* Update to myQ API v5.1.
		* Configuration changes:
			* Platform name has changed to `myQ`. **This will break existing configurations, so ensure you regenerate or update your `config.json` accordingly**.
			* The settings `gateways` and `openers` still exist but currently do nothing. This will be fixed in a future release.
			* Battery status is no longer provided as it doesn't seem to exist in the most recent myQ API. **If you were using this feature, please open an issue and the author can work with you to determine if the API exposes this functionality and make it available in this plugin**.
